# Homelab
This is a documentation of my experiences with building a home server with old devices or self built machines.

I've always been a big enthusiast in exploring devices that are considered outdated to better understand the hardware that came with it. The moment I was able to gather enough money to build my own personal computer, I researched everything that I can about the installation and the possiblities that I can use the device for, even if my initial goal was to just play some games with my friends.

As I grew older however, I realize the other posibilities that these machines can do, especially learning about them through various videos and courses in university, as well as doing my own research when exploring career paths in computer science. Automation was advancing wherever I went, and after exploring career paths, I wanted to see what kind of things I can do to automate my own home. Setting up a homeserver came to mind, as I was already studying cybersecurity in my own time, and I wanted to know a little bit more about the stuff I was learning about, and utilizing it. So what is actually a homeserver? A homeserver refers to a private, network wide server that has the ability to run various applications to store data, automate and run certain devices in your home, and also can monitor network and even filter it with various applications. Being able to block unwanted advertisement was originally my intended use for the server, but being able to store media and host remote servers for multiplayer games and websites also sounded like something that I can fully exploit in the future.

https://youtu.be/46T4cDQBkDs?si=-aOV8jUw6N8i4Tgf
This was the video that I referenced the most during my time researching about homeservers. Out of all the operating systems that I decided to install as a newbie to the building of home servers, Ubuntu Server was the operating system that I finalized with.It was just the easiest way for me to utilize my knowledge about Linux commands, having used the command line already to push various changes to coding projects through Github and Gitlab, as well as having learned about it through random crash courses and sites like Tryhackme, which contains a lot of information about navigating using only commands. 
